---
title: 'Kanji-Furigana'
date: 2021-03-01
permalink: /posts/2021/03/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - DIY Project
---

The problem of furigana in Anki
-----

When studying Japanese, I had to enter the furigana of every kanji I came across.
This was not so bad at the beginning, as most of the early words were written only in Kana, but as I got more advanced, it became obvious I had to get more familiar with kanji.

What I did in the beginning when creating my [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) flashcards was to write both a kana and a kanji version of the flashcard.
Once I had a CSV file of all my terms I would upload them into Anki and using the [Japanese Support](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/3918629684) extension I would automatically generate furigana for each of the kanji.
This was nice, but I still had to go through each term manually to convert any kanji into the correct format so that the Japanese Support extension would display the correct furigana.
Additionally, there was the problem of the extension sometimes getting the wrong furigana, due to an ambiguity of the readings of some kanji.

An attempt to make life easier
------

For these reasons I made a small python script [Kanji-Furigana](https://github.com/VSteinborn/Kanji-Furigana), which takes a column of a spread-sheet formatted file (CSV or an excel format) and converts any kanji in a specified column to a form that is recognized by the Japanese Support extension.

Most of the work is done by the [Pykakasi](https://github.com/miurahr/pykakasi) python package, which makes it easy to convert Kanji to hiragana.
One small note however, is that the problem of some kanji being interpreted with the wrong reading still persists, however the script still saves me around two hours' worth of work every time I try to make my Anki flashcards.